Next up I'd like to expand upon aero functions and this.
Why do aero functions not get their own this and how can it be useful sometimes.
So we're gonna make a little example.
I'm calling it the annoying Matic or the annoy or annoy Tron.
It's going to have a list of annoying phrases these phrases these drive me insane literally cray cray.
I can't even totes YOLO and Can't Stop Won't Stop.
They don't drive me insane.
That's a bit over the top but I'm not a fan of these phrases so we're gonna make this little Neuer that
every second every two seconds every 500 milliseconds prints one of these random phrases to the console
and we just fill up the entire console with a bunch of annoying phrases and the way we're going to structure
it is by using an object.
So I'm gonna make an object here.
I'll call it a Neuer and I'm gonna add this array and you can put whatever array you want in there if
you like some of these phrases.
I am very sorry if I'm offending you here.
Please pick your own phrases.
I'm sure you can find a good number of annoying phrases to draw upon just from my own courses.
I say at the end of the day pretty much every video no matter what time of day it is or essentially
basically oh gosh I can't listen to my own videos.
OK so I'm going to add phrases as a key here into my object and then I'm going to add a method.
The idea is that I'll have a method called Start and another one called stop and I want to be able to
call a lawyer.
Dots start and that will start printing one of these every second and I can call a lawyer that stop
to stop it.
So to do this we'll take advantage of a built in function called set interval set interval is a global.
It's located on the window.
If we look at the window it comes in your browser for free.
If we scroll way down all the way down to s Where are you set interval right there.
So it's a function we call it and we have to pass in a couple of things set interval.
We need to give it a funk to run and a time or the interval.
So for us we'll start something we'll start with something easy like three thousand milliseconds so
whatever function I put here will run every three seconds.
So I'm gonna delete that and instead add a method called start.
So after my phrases I'll add a method called start I need a comma here which will be a function and
then actually I'll use a shorthand get rid of this function keyword that's nicer I'm also gonna add
a method called pick or choose phrase or something so that we can easily get one of these so I'll define
that first.
How about just pick a phrase and in here I'm going to reference this stock phrases which we've seen
that works as long as I'm calling this as annoying dot pick phrase or something dot pick phrase.
I just don't want to be calling it as a non method.
So this dot phrases will be the phrases it's the entire array to pick one randomly.
What I need to do is get the length of this array and when I need to do a math dot random multiply that
by this dot phrases dot blank and I'll probably make this its own variable concept phrase is equal to
this stop phrases or D structure const phrases equals this.
So math not random times phrases dot length and then I need to floor that.
So math dot flower and then I'll call this concept index.
So that gives me a random index from this array.
If we add two more two phrases this will reflect to update that when I call phrases or pick phrase this
dot phrases will reference the current version of phrases.
OK so that gives me that but then I need to access it out of phrases using that index and I'll return
that so I use these structuring here just so I didn't have to reference this stop phrases dot length
and this dot phrases of index.
Maybe it's overkill but we also just learned de structuring so it's always good to get some reinforcement
there.
If I run this code right now.
Oh my gosh.
Gonna clear my console if it will stop lagging the window object made it very unhappy.
All right.
She'll be back to normal.
Refresh my code a Neuer dot pic phrase.
We got yellow and then cray cray.
I can't even YOLO.
Literally I can't even totes.
OK so we're getting a random element each time.
Can't stop won't stop.
Great.
I will stop what we're going to do now is call pick phrases instead of start using set interval so remember
set interval takes two arguments.
The thing that we wanted to call so I'll just write an anonymous function here and I'll start by just
consider logging some random letters and then the second argument is how often I want it to repeat we'll
do three thousand milliseconds.
So right now we're not using pick phrase.
I'm just concerned that logging some gibberish and if I execute and Neuer dot start wait 3 seconds come
on.
There we go.
We got our first one.
Three more seconds we get our second one three more seconds.
We get the third one but what I want to do is console that log pick phrase.
Now this is where the keyword this comes in because we know instead of a method start I can use this
to refer to the object.
So I could call this dot pick phrase.
So if we just tried it once up top here in the method console that log this stop pick phrase.
And I run this annoying dot start.
We get literally and that works and then the set of interval kicks in.
But if I want to call this code this function instead of constant logging I will do the exact same thing
console dot log this dot pick phrase.
But if I move it in this function everything changes
the first one works because it's up top but then we get an error.
This dot pick phrase is not a function.
So why is this different.
Where instead of this function why is it not working.
Well let's look at this.
What do you think the value of this is right here.
One more time.
Enjoy your dot start cray cray.
That's coming from 9/11.
And then this is set to the window.
So why is this right here set to the object but inside another function it's set to the window.
Remember this changes depending on how it's called.
Now we're executing start ourselves as an object or as a method.
We're doing this annoying dot start but this function is being executed not by us but by a set interval
its source code calls this function every three seconds or whatever number we have here.
So we're not calling it.
And that means that this because the way it's called is set to be the window object just like if we
had a random function and we called this we'd done this a couple of times in the past few videos if
we don't execute it as a method on an object.
This is set to the global scope to the window.
So all of this has been set up to talk about aero functions in the past before air functions where a
thing if we wanted to make this work if I want to have a reference to the object the version of this
we have right here I want to be able to call this dot pick phrase in this function the nested function.
What some people would do is make a variable and store it.
You'd see things like const that equals this so we have a reference to this which is the object and
if the console dialog that I call annoying dot start we'll still get an error because we're doing this
stuff pick phrase but that is a reference to the previous.
This from the level above from the start function.
So this is not ideal writing it this way.
Also they wouldn't have used const because it was nothing you would have seen var still not a great
approach.
Once we talk about bind call and apply there are other ways of getting this to work.
But now that we have arrow functions it's actually easier if we instead use an arrow function here we
avoid the problem entirely.
Remember that arrow functions don't get their own.
This the this in an arrow function won't change from the this of its parent or of its nearest.
This the local execution context if we have appear this has a value we've already seen it.
If I type this right here it's referencing the object because I'm not using an arrow function I'm getting
a new this but if I turn this into an arrow function instead like that.
Now we have no problem.
It shouldn't be an issue.
This is going to be the same in this arrow function because arrow functions don't get their own special.
This that means it just relies on the this we have from start.
Let's make sure we'll run it and come on.
I can't even and three seconds later.
Can't stop won't stop.
Oh so annoying.
Who built this thing.
Cray cray and literally it's working.
So that's really what I want to focus on in this video is showing you that sometimes aero functions
are better to use because you don't want a new this but the other side of that coin is that they suck
as regular methods on an object because you don't get access to the.
This referencing the object your this references that window.
So that's nice in a situation like we have here because we will use this from start but it's not nice
if I had tried to write start as an arrow function instead of a regular function expression.
Now one other thing this is not related to this.
This interval is going on and on and on.
We'll keep going until I refresh the page or close the window.
It's best practice to provide a way to stop that interval to stop something from repeating over and
over not to mention the fact that it's incredibly annoying.
Whoever built this evil piece of code what we can do is save the return value from set interval set
interval will return a I.D. and there's a another function we can call called Stop interval or no clear
interval which will stop the interval from running.
So how could I do this if I wanted to have a stop method.
I want to call clear interval but I need to pass in an idea.
But I'm getting the idea from here.
This is going to return it.
If I just make a variable like concept idea equals set interval I have no access to ideas over here.
What I can do is add it to this.
This dot timer idea let's call it that equals set interval let's take a look at what happens now if
we inspect and Neuer open this up.
Well I haven't executed I haven't called a start so I need to run that but now if we look at a Neuer
we do have a timer I.D. that wasn't there before but the code ran start was executed.
This is set to the object.
So this time timer I.D. added a new property called timer I.D. just like we had done this except the
I.D. is not hardcoded as one if we have multiple times we have different ideas.
So just stop it.
My method called Stop would just call clear interval this dot timer I.D. so set interval clear interval.
That's not really the focus of this video if you're struggling with the syntax it's more about this
and error functions and contexts and all that fun stuff.
Let's add a quick console dot log at the end.
Phew thank heavens that is over.
OK.
So I'm going to run my code.
I'll do a Neuer dot start
and eventually I will stop it.
I won't run it yet.
We'll get a few of them one more.
OK one more.
Other than cray cray and it stops iterating or it stops interval.
I don't think that's the right terminology but it's not printing out those annoying phrases anymore.
All right.
So kind of an obscure demo but hopefully this illustrates that sometimes aero functions are great to
use because of the very fact that they don't get their own this.
So what seems like potentially a shortcoming in what is a shortcoming when it comes to defining methods
is an advantage when you have to deal with nested functions and callbacks and different execution contexts
where this gets really annoying.
Use an error function and you don't have to worry about it because this will be identical to the this
of the parent function of start in our case.
This is just a just a joy to teach.
Hopefully you're still there you're still alive you're surviving and you're with me.
Next we're going to see some examples of using this in methods.
And we'll talk more about why you would even bother creating methods why organize our functions like
this.
We could have just written a function called start and stop.
We could have had a global variable called phrases.
So we'll talk about that in the next video.